User manual: docs for copy/paste blocks in Volto (#4288)
plone/volto: docs/source/user-manual/copy-paste-blocks.md

---
myst:
  html_meta:
    "description": "Copy, cut, and paste blocks in Volto, the Plone 6 frontend."
    "property=og:description": "Copy, cut, and paste blocks in Volto, the Plone 6 frontend."
    "property=og:title": "How to copy, cut, and paste Volto blocks"
    "keywords": "Volto, Plone, frontend, React, User manual, edit blocks, copy, cut, paste"
---

(copy-cut-paste-blocks-label)=

# Copy, Cut, and Paste blocks in Volto

Volto supports copying and cutting of blocks from one page, and pasting them to another page.
This chapter describes how to do so.

(copy-cut-blocks-label)=

## Copy/Cut blocks

While in edit mode you can hold `ctrl` key to select multiple blocks you want to copy/cut.

> Once blocks are selected, you will have a copy <img alt="../_static/copy.svg" src="../_static/copy.svg" style="height: 1em;"> and a cut <img alt="../_static/cut.svg" src="../_static/cut.svg" style="height: 1em;"> option at the bottom of Toolbar.

Reviewer: sphinx-book-theme has an additional style that we want to override for inline images.

```css
img {
    margin:1rem 0;
}
```

So let's add a custom class.

```css
/* override sphinx-book-theme img tag with a class */
img.inline {
    margin: 0;
    height: 1em;
}
```

If that does not work, then add ` !important` to the styles as needed.

Also modify the inline HTML.

```suggestion
Once blocks are selected, you will have a copy <img alt="../_static/copy.svg" src="../_static/copy.svg" class="inline"> and a cut <img alt="../_static/cut.svg" src="../_static/cut.svg" class="inline"> option at the bottom of Toolbar.
```

Reviewer: I should add, I don't know if that MyST extension is doing what it promises. Let's make sure it does in fact add ` class="inline"` to the `<img>` tag when it is rendered.

Additionally, Volto also has a hidden feature for selecting multiple blocks in sequence.
This feature can be used by selecting a start block and an end block while holding the `shift` key.
This will select all the blocks between the start and end blocks, allowing you to copy or delete multiple blocks at once.

> .. video:: ../_static/user-manual/blocks/block-copy-cut.mp4

Reviewer: This needs to be in MyST syntax

````suggestion
```{eval-rst}
.. video:: ../_static/user-manual/blocks/block-copy-cut.mp4
```
````

(paste-blocks-label)=

## Paste blocks

Once you copy or cut the blocks, you can paste those blocks on that page or some other page.
Select an empty block where you want to paste blocks from the clipboard.

> You can see the paste option <img alt="../_static/paste.svg" src="../_static/paste.svg" style="height: 1em;"> at the bottom of the toolbar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can see the paste option <img alt="../_static/paste.svg" src="../_static/paste.svg" class="inline"> at the bottom of the toolbar.
```

Also if you hold the `ctrl` key while clicking the paste button, it does not clear the clipboard.

> .. video:: ../_static/user-manual/blocks/block-paste.mp4

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```{eval-rst}
.. video:: ../_static/user-manual/blocks/block-paste.mp4
```
````

---
myst:
  html_meta:

>     "description": "Copy, cut and paste blocks in Volto, the Plone 6 frontend."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "description": "Copy, cut, and paste blocks in Volto, the Plone 6 frontend."
```

>     "property=og:description": "Copy, cut and paste blocks in Volto, the Plone 6 frontend."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "property=og:description": "Copy, cut, and paste blocks in Volto, the Plone 6 frontend."
```

    "property=og:title": "How to copy, cut, and paste Volto blocks"
    "keywords": "Volto, Plone, frontend, React, User manual, edit blocks, copy, cut, paste"
---

(copy-cut-paste-blocks-label)=

# Copy, Cut, and Paste blocks in Volto

> Volto supports copying/cutting of blocks from one page and pasting them to another page. Here's how you can do:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Volto supports copying and cutting of blocks from one page, and pasting them to another page.
This chapter describes how to do so.
```

(copy-cut-blocks-label)=

## Copy/Cut blocks

> While in edit mode you can hold <kbd>ctrl</kbd> key to select multiple blocks you want to copy/cut.

Reviewer: Avoid inserting HTML into Markdown because it is not supported in PDF and other output formats. Use MyST markup instead.

```suggestion
While in edit mode you can hold :kbd:`ctrl` key to select multiple blocks you want to copy/cut.
```

Author: Oh... Thanks Steve! didn't knew that. Noted for next time :)

> Once blocks are selected, you will have a copy <i class="fas fa-copy"></i> and a cut <i class="fas fa-cut"></i> option at the bottom of Toolbar.

Reviewer: We should use the [Volto (Pastanaga) icons](https://pastanaga.io/icons/), not Font Awesome icons. We want any icons used inline to be consistent with the actual UI.

This also requires a new MyST extension. See https://myst-parser.readthedocs.io/en/latest/syntax/optional.html#html-images

Here is untested sample markup. Also I know I just said that HTML should be avoided, but that MyST extension supposedly resolves the issue of different output formats.

```suggestion
Once blocks are selected, you will have a copy <img alt="../_static/copy.svg" src="../_static/copy.svg" style="height: 1em;"> and a cut <img alt="../_static/cut.svg" src="../_static/cut.svg" style="height: 1em;"> option at the bottom of Toolbar.
```

Author: Sure will do!

Additionally, Volto also has a hidden feature for selecting multiple blocks in sequence.

> This feature can be used by selecting a start block and an end block while holding the <kbd>shift</kbd> key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature can be used by selecting a start block and an end block while holding the `kbd`shift` key.
```

> This will select all the blocks between the start and end block, allowing you to copy or delete multiple blocks at once.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will select all the blocks between the start and end blocks, allowing you to copy or delete multiple blocks at once.
```

> ```{image} ../_static/user-manual/blocks/block-copy-cut.gif

Reviewer: Animations are poor for usability, accessibility, and file size. We should instead use videos that have full playback capability and may be loaded async. I admit I let a few sneak in before, but I now realize we should resolve to improve the usability.

Also the recordings get reduced to a narrow viewport width of 686 pixels on desktop, and less on mobile. When recording we should try to keep the browser width, or the recorded area, to 680 pixels maximum.

mp4 is a well supported video format.

Here's the Sphinx extension that needs to be installed.

https://github.com/sphinx-contrib/video

Author: Thanks for the input! I thought the same, so I'll re-record it and upload the video with MP4 extension installed.

Author: @stevepiercy, Do you have any suggestions on how I can improve the animations in the video?

Reviewer: Before I start recording, I usually resize the browser window to as narrow as possible to reduce unused space and focus attention on the action.

I took two screenshots. Note that I have clicked the vertical handle to collapse the right panel to make more space.

Note that the copy/cut toolbar is at the top of the browser window for 680 pixels, and drops to the side at 768 pixels. We need to be mindful of different device viewport sizes.

## 680 pixels wide

![Screen Shot 2023-02-03 at 5 33 57 AM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/102112/216616227-4884a49f-5d02-45af-bc36-922b51931352.png)

## 768 pixels wide

![Screen Shot 2023-02-03 at 5 38 04 AM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/102112/216617039-786adc28-cc16-40e9-9c5f-44fd15185b76.png)

I think that setting the browser width to 768 pixels will accommodate the largest audience of users. I doubt most users will edit with a phone or tablet, but we can always revisit that audience in future updates. I would focus on the desktop audience for now.

We also might update our documentation theme to accommodate wider layouts for the main content area, but that is another future consideration, not something to consider now.

Author: Thanks for the update! , I'll implement the suggested changes soon.
> We also might update our documentation theme to accommodate wider layouts for the main content area, but that is another future consideration, not something to consider now.

Ohh.. sure love to look into it in near future :)

:alt: Select and Copy/Cut blocks
```

(paste-blocks-label)=

## Paste blocks

> Once you copy/cut the blocks you can paste those blocks on that page or some other page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you copy or cut the blocks, you can paste those blocks on that page or some other page.
```

> Select an empty block where you want to paste blocks from clipboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select an empty block where you want to paste blocks from the clipboard.
```

> You can see the paste option <i class="fas fa-clipboard"></i> at the bottom of Toolbar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can see the paste option <img alt="../_static/paste.svg" src="../_static/paste.svg" style="height: 1em;"> at the bottom of the toolbar.
```

> Also, in addition if you hold <kbd>ctrl</kbd> key while clicking the paste button, it does not clear the clipboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also if you hold the :kbd:`ctrl` key while clicking the paste button, it does not clear the clipboard.
```

> ```{image} ../_static/user-manual/blocks/block-paste.gif

Reviewer: Let's replace the gif with a video.

---
myst:
  html_meta:
    "description": "Copy, cut, and paste blocks in Volto, the Plone 6 frontend."
    "property=og:description": "Copy, cut, and paste blocks in Volto, the Plone 6 frontend."
    "property=og:title": "How to copy, cut, and paste Volto blocks"
    "keywords": "Volto, Plone, frontend, React, User manual, edit blocks, copy, cut, paste"
---

(copy-cut-paste-blocks-label)=

# Copy, Cut, and Paste blocks in Volto

Volto supports copying and cutting of blocks from one page, and pasting them to another page.
This chapter describes how to do so.

(copy-cut-blocks-label)=

> ## Copy/Cut blocks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Copy or cut blocks
```

> While in edit mode you can hold {kbd}`ctrl` key to select multiple blocks you want to copy/cut.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While in edit mode, you can hold the {kbd}`ctrl` key to select multiple blocks that you want to copy or cut.
```

> Once blocks are selected, you will have a copy <img alt="../_static/copy.svg" src="../_static/copy.svg" class="inline"> and a cut <img alt="../_static/cut.svg" src="../_static/cut.svg" class="inline"> option at the bottom of Toolbar.

Reviewer: The toolbar goes horizontal and to the top of the window on small screens.

```suggestion
Once blocks are selected, you will have copy <img alt="../_static/copy.svg" src="../_static/copy.svg" class="inline"> and cut <img alt="../_static/cut.svg" src="../_static/cut.svg" class="inline"> options in the toolbar.
```

Author: Oh yeah I missed that , Thanks for pointing it out.

> Additionally, Volto also has a hidden feature for selecting multiple blocks in sequence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Volto also allows the selection of multiple contiguous blocks.
```

This feature can be used by selecting a start block and an end block while holding the {kbd}`shift` key.

> This will select all the blocks between the start and end blocks, allowing you to copy or delete multiple blocks at once.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will select all the blocks between the start and end blocks, allowing you to copy, cut, or delete multiple blocks at once.
```

```{eval-rst}
.. video:: ../_static/user-manual/blocks/block-copy-cut.mp4
    :width: 100%
```

(paste-blocks-label)=

## Paste blocks

Once you copy or cut the blocks, you can paste those blocks on that page or some other page.
Select an empty block where you want to paste blocks from the clipboard.

> You can see the paste option <img alt="../_static/paste.svg" src="../_static/paste.svg" class="inline"> in the toolbar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can click the paste option <img alt="../_static/paste.svg" src="../_static/paste.svg" class="inline"> in the toolbar.
```

> You can see the paste option <img alt="../_static/paste.svg" src="../_static/paste.svg" class="inline"> at the bottom of the toolbar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can see the paste option <img alt="../_static/paste.svg" src="../_static/paste.svg" class="inline"> in the toolbar.
```

> Also if you hold the {kbd}`ctrl` key while clicking the paste button, it does not clear the clipboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also if you hold the {kbd}`ctrl` key while clicking the paste button, it keeps the clipboard buffer, allowing you to repeatedly paste it.
```
